>> Mike: I'm going to go into models and
I just want to add a trivial
change somewhere like here.
What is this?
Nope, that's in enum.
That's actually going to mess things up.
We've got human toxicity,
pet toxicity, livestock toxicity.
Great.
We're gonna have,
Alien toxicity with affected parts.
We're worried about how our
vegetables will affect aliens.
All right, so I've saved this and
you can see this yellow x,
I've got a code alteration
that's been made.
So what I can do is say pnpm lerna run
test --since=course-progress.
What it's done is it can
identify that I have made.
Gosh, there we go.
That's more satisfying to look at.
Well, I've touched something in the models
folder and I've made a change and
it looks at the delta between my current
working state and any git ref here.
So this could be a sha.
I could have pointed to
origin/course-progress,
whatever you wanna do.
This allows you to run tasks on a subset
of not only what you just touched, but
what is downstream in the dependency
graph from what you just touched.
So it's a lot more sophisticated than
if you've ever used something like lint
staged before, where that's simply
just like looking at git diff.
Which files did you touch?
Let me run things based
on those files here.
We're getting something very
important back that we had at
the beginning of the class when this
was a monolith in a single repo.
And that was we could make a low level
change to our models and then the entire
test suite ran on the server, on the ui,
the tests that run on the models.
And it's very easy when you start
separating things out into a monorepo if
you don't have the right tooling in place.
You can fall into this trap where
it's almost like the unit test trap,
where, gosh, it seemed fine,
we made this code change and
the tests in that package passed, or
the linting on that package passed,
or this small part of
the project type checked.
This lets you get back to that point
where you're saying, all right,
I have the benefits of a monorepo, meaning
I'm not boiling the ocean and saying run
all the tests over again for everything
that exists in this git, git, repo.
But we are getting the benefit
of saying I touched something.
Use your knowledge of,where
was the thing I touched?
What are the downstream
dependencies that it could affect?
And now we can end up running
a subset of the test there.
So let's see if we can show
an example of this actually working.
What I should do now
is revert this change.
Let me touch something just in server,
and the hope is this just runs.
So there we go, trivial change.
Just the server.
Wait, am I in the server folder?
Could have fooled me.
There you go.
That's all that's running.
The only thing that changed since my
head commit was files and server.
So we don't need the models to run again.
We don't need that test suite to pass.
That's upstream.
Presumably those tests pass in master.
I check things out and I haven't
touched it, it's validated already.
So this is a really cool way,
a cool benefit,
a way to reap this benefit of being
able to operate on test on type,
check on lint on small
portions of your project.
And this is where we're starting to
see some of the lightweight promise of
working in a monorepo come to life.
But you need a build tool
that's aware not just of
file structures like file
locations in a directory, but
the dependency graph of how all of
these things are related to each other.
>> Male: When we're doing learn run test,
is that our old like test script
we had that it's running?
>> Mike: Yep, this is the test script.
>> Male: And so how is it able
to break up down to individual
tests if it's just running a script?
>> Mike: Sorry, to be clear,
and I'm gonna prove this,
it is not in our root package
JSON like I'm renaming that.
This should still run.
This is going into each individual
package and running PNPM test,
but it's making a determination
of which packages it does that in
based on what was changed and
its knowledge of the dependency graph.
So this is very much the for
each of testing.
And so what I would do here is I'd say,
great,
we've got like the test thing in CI.
Yeah, we're going to run that.
But we can also have like test changed.
And this is where we would say, look,
PNPM is not quite specific or
sophisticated enough to do this.
And so I'm going to grab this and
I'm going to put it up.
Here.
And we can just have this be like this is
what you would periodically be running
over and over again.
I made some changes.
Lint it for me, lint only the stuff that's
changed, build only the packages that
need to be rebuilt as a result of
the code I have not committed yet.
It's super powerful to be
able to point to any Git ref.
Like, you want to look at is this
an incremental change that is
being added on top of
an existing priority.
And you know that build already passed.
And so you can just look at the last
three commits that you've made.
So let's just do it since Origin,
PR branch or whatever that is.
>> Male: So really the benefit with this
is going to kind of compound as you have
more and more packages,
I guess in a monorepo.
Right, if you just had one package,
this wouldn't really do anything.
Is that correct?
>> Mike: Yeah, it's almost like the more
this benefits you, the more you're able
to break a sizable project up that
already took a long time to build,
to lend to test,
the more you're able to break that up.
This approach is what lets you pay the
cost, the computational cost of performing
these build, lint and test tasks on
the increment of what you touched and
what could be affected by what you
touched as opposed to the whole thing.
So it pays more dividends.
Like if you wanna think of it as
the relative difference between those,
this is more valuable as
your project gets larger and
as productivity starts to look worse and
worse.
When you look at like what would the cost
be of running the entire build from
scratch over and over again?
Like bluntly, I mean,
this took 762 milliseconds.
Let's see, what does the whole thing take?
I mean it's not zero.
Like this was 372.
This was 1.14 11.
Like it's not the end of the world.
But let's try build.
>> Mike: Lerna run build --since.
Pnpm lerna run build.
Great.
So that was 726.
But what if we just said PNPM build.
All right, but remember,
these are in sequence.
So we've got half a second here and
then another 0.7.
So we're over a second.
Like this is.
Call it close to double.
>> Male: It's almost double.
>> Mike: Yeah, close to double.
And this for a teeny tiny little project.
And mainly it's coming from the fact that
I avoided building like spinning up vite
to build this at all, which by
the way is an incredibly fast tool.
Like you're lucky if you're using PNPM and
vite and this latest version of Learna,
we're leaning towards like
the fastest possible things available
that you could be using to build.
And so, where lerna really is useful.
Like say you're using regular NPM and
you've got a lot more files on disk
as a result and you're not using Turbo or
you're not using.
Well, in this case,
you'd be using nx, right?
So it can add up, and it gets
better with where we're going next.